Added eProsima Suite Docker info to documentation [12807] (#21)
eProsima/all-docs: source/eprosima-suite/eprosima_suite.rst

.. _docker_usage:

Docker Installation and Usage
-----------------------------

> To run this container you need Docker installed. From a terminal run

Reviewer: I prefer reported speech all the way through. This goes for the entire page
```suggestion
To run *eProsima Suite* container, Docker is required.
From a terminal run:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo apt install docker.io

To load this image into your Docker repository, from a terminal run

.. code-block:: bash

 $ docker load -i ubuntu-eprosima-suite:<FastDDS-Version>.tar

You can run this Docker container as follows

.. code-block:: bash

 $ xhost local:root
 $ docker run -it --privileged -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix \
 ubuntu-eprosima-suite:<FastDDS-Version>

From the resulting Bash Shell you can run each feature.

.. _fast_dds_suite_examples:

Fast DDS Examples
-----------------

Included in this Docker container is a set of binary examples that showcase several functionalities of the

> Fast DDS libraries. These examples' path can be accessed from a terminal by typing

Reviewer: I'd say the Fast DDS is 1 library. It is true that it depends on Fast CDR, but the end user does not interact with it directly, so they only use one library
```suggestion
Fast DDS library.
These examples' path can be accessed from a terminal by typing
```

.. _docker_usage:

Docker Installation and Usage
-----------------------------

To run *eProsima Suite* container, Docker is required.
From a terminal run

.. code-block:: bash

>     $ sudo apt install docker.io

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sudo apt install docker.io
```

To load this image into your Docker repository, from a terminal run

.. code-block:: bash

>  $ docker load -i ubuntu-eprosima-suite:<FastDDS-Version>.tar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    docker load -i ubuntu-eprosima-suite:<FastDDS-Version>.tar
```

*eProsima Suite* Docker container can be run as follows:

.. code-block:: bash

>  $ xhost local:root
>  $ docker run -it --privileged -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix \
>  ubuntu-eprosima-suite:<FastDDS-Version>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    xhost local:root
    docker run \
        -it \
        --privileged \
        -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY \
        -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix \
        ubuntu-eprosima-suite:<FastDDS-Version>
```

Each feature can be run from the resulting Bash Shell.

.. _fast_dds_suite_examples:

Fast DDS Examples
-----------------

Included in this Docker container is a set of binary examples that showcase several functionalities of the
Fast DDS library.
These examples' path can be accessed from a terminal by typing

.. code-block:: bash

>  $ goToExamples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    goToExamples
```

This will change the working directory to a location containing several examples, both for DDS and RTPS.
Below are the steps to launch two such examples.

Hello World Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This is a minimal example that will perform a Publisher/Subscriber match and start sending samples.

.. code-block:: bash

>  $ goToExamples
>  $ cd HelloWorldExample/bin
>  $ tmux new-session "./HelloWorldExample publisher 0 1000" \; \
>  split-window "./HelloWorldExample subscriber" \; \
>  select-layout even-vertical

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    goToExamples
    cd HelloWorldExample/bin
    tmux new-session \
        "./HelloWorldExample publisher 0 1000" \; \
        split-window "./HelloWorldExample subscriber" \; \
        select-layout even-vertical
```

This example is not constrained to the current image instance, meaning that it is possible to run several instances of
this container to check the communication between them.
From one terminal you could launch an image and, on the presented shell, run:

.. code-block:: bash

>  $ goToExamples
>  $ cd HelloWorldExample/bin
>  $ ./HelloWorldExample publisher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    goToExamples
    cd HelloWorldExample/bin
    ./HelloWorldExample publisher
```

And then from another terminal with another instance run the following:

.. code-block:: bash

>  $ goToExamples
>  $ cd HelloWorldExample/bin
>  $ ./HelloWorldExample subscriber

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    goToExamples
    cd HelloWorldExample/bin
    ./HelloWorldExample subscriber
```

Benchmark Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This example creates either a Publisher or a Subscriber and, after a successful match, starts sending samples.
After a few seconds the process that launched the Publisher will show a report with the number of samples transmitted.

On the subscriber side, run:

.. code-block:: bash

>  $ goToExamples
>  $ cd Benchmark/bin
>  $ ./Benchmark subscriber udp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    goToExamples
    cd Benchmark/bin
    ./Benchmark subscriber udp
```

On the publisher side, run:

.. code-block:: bash

>  $ goToExamples
>  $ cd Benchmark/bin
>  $ ./Benchmark publisher udp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    goToExamples
    cd Benchmark/bin
    ./Benchmark publisher udp
```

.. _fast_dds_suite_shapes_demo:

Shapes Demo
-----------

To launch the Shapes Demo, from a terminal run

.. code-block:: bash

>  $ ShapesDemo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ShapesDemo
```

eProsima Shapes Demo usage information can be found on the `Shapes Demo documentation
<https://eprosima-shapes-demo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/first_steps/first_steps.html>`_.

.. _fast_dds_suite_monitor:

Fast DDS Monitor
----------------

To launch the Fast DDS Monitor, from a terminal run

.. code-block:: bash

>  $ fastdds_monitor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    fastdds_monitor
```

eProsima Fast DDS Monitor User Manual can be located on the `Fast DDS Monitor documentation
<https://fast-dds-monitor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/rst/user_manual/initialize_monitoring.html>`_.

.. _micro_xrce_dds:

eProsima Micro XRCE-DDS
-----------------------

To launch the Micro XRCE-DDS Agent, from a terminal run

.. code-block:: bash

>  $ MicroXRCEAgent udp4 -p 2019 -r /root/agent.refs &

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    MicroXRCEAgent udp4 -p 2019 -r /root/agent.refs &
```

With the Agent started, you can now run the ShapesDemo

.. code-block:: bash

>  $ ShapesDemo &

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ShapesDemo &
```

And launch the ShapeDemoClient, a demo client used to send data to the ShapesDemo via the Micro XRCE-DDS Agent.

.. code-block:: bash

>  $ ShapeDemoClient --udp4 127.0.0.1 2019

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ShapeDemoClient --udp4 127.0.0.1 2019
```

Inside that client, you can now follow the steps detailed in the `eProsima XRCE-DDS Shapes Demo page
<https://micro-xrce-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/shapes_demo.html>`_ to send data to the ShapesDemo.

> 
> 

Reviewer: Just one empty line at the end of the files
```suggestion
```

> :orphan:

Reviewer: I think this page can be a subsection of "eProsima Suite". That way, we can see it in the TOC tree

Author: This :orphan: directive was meant to prevent warning messages since with the current layout there is no TOC tree containing this page. Will try reorganizing it with an intro/contents structure more similar to the other documentation repositories.

.. _eprosima_suite:

eProsima Suite
==============

eProsima provides the eProsima Suite Docker image for those who want a Docker image with a set of eProsima's tools
and libraries running on an Ubuntu platform. It can be downloaded from
`eProsima's downloads page <https://eprosima.com/index.php/downloads-all>`_.

> This Docker image was built for Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal Fossa).

Reviewer: Is this really relevant? As long as the host is an Ubuntu, then the image will run so I don't think the user needs to know this

To run this container you need Docker installed. From a terminal run

.. code-block:: bash

>     $ sudo apt install docker.io

Reviewer: I'd move this to after the list of features

This Docker image contains the complete eProsima Suite. This includes:

> - :ref:`eProsima Fast DDS libraries and examples <fast_dds_suite_examples>`: Fast DDS libraries bundled with several

Reviewer: What do you mean by Fast DDS libraries? I'd normally write Fast DDS library

Author: I guess this depends on whether you consider RTPS/DDS and CDR libraries as separate entities or as part of a single library. I was going for the former when i wrote these lines, but i can see why it might be the other way around.

  examples that showcase a variety of capabilities of eProsima's Fast DDS implementation.

- :ref:`Shapes Demo <fast_dds_suite_shapes_demo>`: eProsima Shapes Demo is an application in which Publishers and

>   Subscribers are shapes of different colors and sizes moving on a board. Each shape refers to its own topic: Square,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Subscribers create and display shapes of different colors and sizes moving on a board. Each shape refers to its own topic: Square,
```

>   Triangle or Circle. A single instance of the eProsima Shapes Demo can publish on or subscribe to several topics at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Triangle or Circle. A single instance of the eProsima Shapes Demo can publish on and/or subscribe to several topics at
```

  a time.

  You can read more about this application on the `Shapes Demo documentation page
  <https://eprosima-shapes-demo.readthedocs.io/>`_.

- :ref:`Fast DDS Monitor <fast_dds_suite_monitor>`: eProsima Fast DDS Monitor is a graphical desktop application aimed
  at monitoring DDS environments deployed using the *eProsima Fast DDS* library. Thus, the user can monitor in real
  time the status of publication/subscription communications between DDS entities. They can also choose from a wide
  variety of communication parameters to be measured (latency, throughput, packet loss, etc.), as well as record and
  compute in real time statistical measurements on these parameters (mean, variance, standard deviation, etc.).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: In my opinion deleting these line breaks makes these paragraphs harder to read.

  You can read more about this application on the `Fast DDS Monitor documentation page
  <https://fast-dds-monitor.readthedocs.io/>`_.

- :ref:`eProsima Micro XRCE-DDS <micro_xrce_dds>`:
  eProsima Micro XRCE-DDS is a software solution that allows communicating
  eXtremely Resource Constrained Environments (XRCEs) with an existing DDS network. This implementation complies with
  the specification of the `eXtremely Resource Constrained Environments DDS (DDS-XRCE)

>   <https://www.omg.org/spec/DDS-XRCE/>`_. protocol as defined and maintained by the Object Management Group (OMG)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <https://www.omg.org/spec/DDS-XRCE/>`_ protocol as defined and maintained by the Object Management Group (OMG)
```

  consortium.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: In my opinion deleting these line breaks makes these paragraphs harder to read.

>   You can read more about this application on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can read more about this application at
```

  `eProsima Micro XRCE-DDS documentation page <https://micro-xrce-dds.docs.eprosima.com/>`_.

> To load this image into your Docker repository, from a terminal run

Reviewer: Up to here, I think we have a good intro. I'd move all the rest into a "Getting Started" section which will contain several subsection (one for installing docker and running the image, and then all the rest you have here)

.. code-block:: bash

 $ docker load -i ubuntu-eprosima-suite:<FastDDS-Version>.tar

You can run this Docker container as follows

.. code-block:: bash

 $ xhost local:root
 $ docker run -it --privileged -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix \
 ubuntu-eprosima-suite:<FastDDS-Version>

From the resulting Bash Shell you can run each feature.

.. _fast_dds_suite_examples:

Fast DDS Examples
-----------------

Included in this Docker container is a set of binary examples that showcase several functionalities of the
Fast DDS libraries. These examples' path can be accessed from a terminal by typing

.. code-block:: bash

 $ goToExamples

> From this folder you can access all examples, both for DDS and RTPS. We detail the steps to launch two such

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From this folder you can access all Fast DDS' examples, both for DDS and RTPS. We detail the steps to launch two such
```

examples below.

Hello World Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This is a minimal example that will perform a Publisher/Subscriber match and start sending samples.

.. code-block:: bash

 $ goToExamples
 $ cd HelloWorldExample/bin
 $ tmux new-session "./HelloWorldExample publisher 0 1000" \; \
 split-window "./HelloWorldExample subscriber" \; \
 select-layout even-vertical

> This example is not constrained to the current instance. It's possible to run several instances of this

Reviewer: In general, please do not use contractions
```suggestion
This example is not constrained to the current image instance, meaning that it is possible to run several instances of this
```

container to check the communication between them by running the following from each container.

.. code-block:: bash

 $ goToExamples
 $ cd HelloWorldExample/bin
 $ ./HelloWorldExample publisher

> or

Reviewer: I'd rather see something like: "on one terminal, run one image and do this; on another terminal run another instance and do that"

.. code-block:: bash

 $ goToExamples
 $ cd HelloWorldExample/bin
 $ ./HelloWorldExample subscriber

Benchmark Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This example creates either a Publisher or a Subscriber and on a successful match starts sending samples. After a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example creates either a Publisher or a Subscriber and, after a successful match, starts sending samples. After a
```
